I have previously in this course introduced you to the concept of polynomials and how to work with polynomials
in Python polynomials are super important in abstract math and even more important in many areas of
applied mathematics.
So therefore you will see polynomials coming up over and over again throughout this course and in this
video.
I'm going to show you about the roots of a polynomial what the roots mean.
Now you might be thinking that the roots of a polynomial are the pieces in the ground and that's how
the polynomial gets its water and nutrients and so forth but actually roots refers to something a little
bit different.
All right.
And I'm also going to tell you about something that's important to understand when working with mathematics
on computers and that is called Computer rounding error.
All right.
So here we have our polynomial and I'm just going to give you a quick reminder.
So this whole thing is a polynomial because you have some numbers out front and then you have numbers
being each of these numbers being multiplied by increasing powers of the variable.
In this case it's X..
So a little bit of terminology These are called the coefficients.
So a zero a one a two up to a N and the order here is really important.
So a one multiplies that coefficient a one multiplies X to the power of one and a zero actually multiplies
X to the power of zero.
It's not explicitly written in here but there is an X to the zero up here of course X to the zero is
one.
So a 2 is X squared and up to a end to the power of a n.
Right.
So these are called the coefficients and the X terms here are sometimes called the variable there sometimes
called the in determinants.
I don't know how often people use this term I think more often people use the variable.
Okay so then what is the root of a polynomial.
What are the roots of polynomials.
It's actually really simple.
All you do is you take this polynomial you set it equal to zero.
Now sometimes that involves doing a little bit of arithmetic you know sometimes you might have to move
a couple of terms onto the other side of the equation but you get the entire polynomial on one side
of the equation and zero on the other side of the equation.
And then you just solve for x and when you solve for x the solutions for x are called the roots of the
polynomials.
So roots of polynomials are important in many areas they crop up for example in linear algebra when
computing eigenvalues.
All right.
So let's switch to Python and essentially what I'm going to do is implement a fairly simple polynomial
and I will show you how to compute the roots of the polynomial using num pi so we are definitely going
to be using none pie.
In fact we're also going to be using simple.
So let me already import some PI as Sim and so simple.
And display in math I'm basically just using for printing out information so I'm also going to write
from I Python dot display import display comma math.
All right.
So let's import all of these modules and now the polynomial that I want to find the roots of.
Let's call this the polynomial.
This is going to be three X squared plus two X minus one.
Now of course this is not Python code.
This is like math notation slash it would be you know something like how you would write it out in latex.
This is actually just for us to see this.
So what I'm going to do using num pi is first just define the coefficients.
So how do we do that.
I'm going to say.
Now what are the coefficients of this polynomial.
So in general the three coefficients are minus one 2 and 3.
But the way that these have to be listed in Python is to write them in order in descending order of
the largest power of x are of the variable.
So in fact the way that we need to write this is three comma two comma minus one and that is super important
to remember because inputting the coefficients in this order is very very different from a polynomial
where you would import it like this minus one two three.
So the numbers of course are the same but in fact this set of coefficients interpreted by num PI will
actually mean minus X squared plus two X.
So that would be the same plus three.
Okay.
So that order is important to keep in mind and then to compute the roots.
It's actually pretty simple you just type N.P. num pi dot roots.
That's the function and then you input the vector of coefficients.
Okay.
So what are these roots.
Let's see.
I will print them out.
So here are the roots.
Ha.
Okay.
So there's two numbers here.
That means that there are two routes to this equation.
There are two solutions to setting this polynomial equal to zero.
Now this looks like a pretty simple number so we can even confirm this algebraic CLI right here in our
head so minus 1 squared is 1.
And then one times three is three.
So then we get three two times minus one is minus two.
So three minus two is plus one minus one equals zero.
So all right that one works.
Okay.
And what I want to do now is use simplify and display and some later coding just to print out this stuff
a little bit nicer.
We need to start by creating an equation for this polynomial and actually maybe I'll call it p 0 4 poly
maybe p n polynomial that looks nice.
So that's three times X squared plus two times x minus one.
So is this going to work or is this going to give an error.
You guessed it it's going to give an error because we haven't created a variable X yet so x equals some
dot symbols x.
Okay.
And now I can run this again.
I don't get any errors.
So here's our polynomial.
Now what I'm going to do is loop through these two numbers so basically all the routes and just print
out the individual route and then I'm also going to solve this equation using the routes and substituting
in for this for x in this polynomial.
This simple object here.
So for i in routes what I'm going to do is display.
And then I want to say something like at X equals and then percent G for you know each individual route
and then I want to write the equation printed out here and then solve for the equation.
So that's then going to be another number.
Okay.
So let's see what replacements we need to do in here.
So this first replacement percent G was the first root which is variable I hear.
So that's I.
And then this one was the expression.
So that s p n and of course that needs to be converted into latex so Sim dot latex p n and then this
substitution here I want to be I want this to come from actually substituting in the root that we solved
here that num pi told us here into this equation.
So that's going be the polynomial subs.
Now I'm substituting variable X and its root I.
All right so I'm gonna run this code see how this looks all right.
So it's kind of there all the information that we need is there but it doesn't really look very nice
here.
So what we need to do you will recall from previous sections is actually explicitly tell the math function
and late in general that we want this to look like text.
I'm going to say slash slash text and then in curly brackets and let's try that here.
Okay.
Run it again.
That looks a little bit better.
So at X equals minus one.
This is just a little too close.
I want to put in a space here.
How about slash slash quad.
All right.
That gives us a little bit more room and I think this looks pretty good.
So at X equals minus one three X squared plus two X minus one equals zero.
And on that we already confirmed up here.
So let's look at what's happening here now at X equals point 3 3 3 3 3 which is what the other route
is this equation solving four point three three three into X doesn't seem to equal zero.
So what's going on here.
Was I lying to you when I told you about what the root of a polynomial means or is there something weird
going on with the computer here.
Now I assure you I didn't lie to you.
I never lied to my students.
Sometimes I joke around but I never tell lies.
Now I haven't yet introduced you to scientific notation but you might already be familiar with scientific
notation on computers and what this number really means.
This is not actually the number minus five.
This is the number minus five times 10 to the minus 17.
That's what this e minus 17 business means.
So this is actually zero point zero zero zero zero.
And so on for 17 zeros and then there's the five down here.
So this is a tiny tiny tiny tiny number.
It's not exactly zero but it's as close to zero as the computer is capable of representing.
And the problem here is that this root the true root to this equation this polynomial is actually one
third.
But this is not one third.
This is a really close approximation of one third.
And so because this is not exactly one third when you substitute this number in to this equation here
the result is not going to be exactly zero it's gonna be extremely close to zero but not exactly zero.
So in general whenever you see a number on a computer when you're doing math and that number is really
tiny but you expect it to be zero if it's something like you know minus 15.
So e minus 15 or minus 16 or minus 17 you can consider that to be zero plus computer rounding error.
So in this video I told you about the roots of polynomials I told you how to use num pi to extract the
roots of polynomials and printing them out in a simple way.
And I also told you a little bit about computer rounding error which is pretty important when you're
doing mathematics in Python or really any numerical processing software and computers don't runaway.
Keep watching the next video is going to show the exercise that's associated with this video.